Moving on.
Hope you are having fun in this
Python course and hope you have
rated us with your kind words.
We really need that.
So in this portion of the Python
course we're going to work on that
we can actually yield some value.
In case you remember from
the last video we are
talking about the generators.
We have seen quite a lot, quite
a hidden details about them.
But now we want to see two more
things and that is it, that
is all about the generators.
The one thing which is common
that sometimes generator
doesn't generate the value or
yield the value on its own.
It sometimes borrows the value
from somewhere else.
That is totally possible.
We're going to see a right example
for that as well as sometimes maybe
you don't want to generate rest
of the values from a generator,
or maybe it's an infinite generator.
We don't want to keep it
in the memory forever.
We want to close it down so
that it's removed from the memory
and we get the job done.
This is a common scenario
in the database.
Whenever a function calls
you yield a connection string
from the database.
And once it's all done you
finally try to close this up.
Although the logic is bit
different there in the database
but you will see somehow similar
kind of example appear.
Let me take you up on the screen
and the next thing that we want
to do in this yield is just like
we have worked on the send data,
now we want to work on yield from
and we are also going to work on
close.
So how do we do these things?
How do we yield from
and how do we close this?
It's actually super easy if you
just go ahead and look at this.
So let's create a sample
example for this.
I'll close everything we worked
quite a lot and let's create
a new file and we'll write both
the example in the same file.
Let's call this1 as 04 close.
Jenny Raytor There we go.
Py.
Okay, so what we're going to do,
first of all I'll shut up my AI.
Otherwise I, I hardly use it.
I always keep it shut up.
But I don't know why.
I do have this extension
enabled in this.
I'll probably get rid of this.
So let's just say we simply go
ahead and define a local chai.
Yes, the chai is the theme
of this entire course.
We're not going
to leave it anytime back.
It's fun actually.
A lot of people love chai.
Or you can replace it with coffee as
well in case you Are that big fan.
And once we are done with this, we
are going to go ahead and say yield.
The first time you call this one, it
says I'll give you a masala chai.
The next time you go ahead
and call this one, this is going
to give you ginger chai.
All right, good enough, Fair enough.
We have another one which is
imported chai.
There we go.
And this one also does yield.
So we're going to yield
and first time we're going to
have an imported chai.
So I think Macha is one
of the imported one, very famous
as well the Japanese one.
And Oolong is actually
not from India.
So oolong chai is popular
in again Southeast Asia,
but not exactly in India.
You got some chai knowledge as well.
So we are going to define a simple
full menu in this full menu.
And the way how full menu works
is we are going to get the data
little from the local chai, little
from the imported one.
So how we do that,
pretty easy actually.
We can use yield, but not only
just yield, we can actually use
another syntax which is from.
It's almost similar to when
you actually write
at the top from this file.
I want to import this function.
It's almost exactly same.
All you got to do is have this local
chai and make sure this is
a classic mistake execute that you
want to call the function here.
Similarly in this line we want
to go ahead this time we want
to have the imported chai.
So make sure you execute that
and that is it.
That is all you have.
In order to see that how this
function actually works, we can just
go ahead and say for chai in full
menu, just like this and we're going
to yield one at a time.
We're not going to use next
next, next you know the syntax
of it if it is required.
But in this case I'll just
go ahead and say let's
print the chai value here.
Pretty easy.
Not that bad, not that bad.
I'll just go ahead and say,
hey python, let's run the 04
and there we go, we see
masala chai, ginger chai.
So after that we got
matcha and Oolong.
So pretty good, pretty fun
that we have imported that.
And once you see yield, it actually
goes ahead and does all the job.
Now let's go ahead and see if we
can run through how we can actually
close halfway through the things.
Yes, that's totally possible.
I'll show you an example.
Let's just say we have a chai stall
and this one is pretty interesting
one because we are going
to use another syntax which is Try
Catch, also known as Try Accept.
In the world of Python we call it
as Try and accept, but in most
of the world other programming
language it's called as Try Catch.
So don't get confused with that.
Whenever I say Try Catch or anybody
else says Try catch that means
implement the try except syntax.
It's a valid syntax, available
In Java, JavaScript,
Swift, almost every language.
So we'll just go ahead and say
we want to try something.
I'll write a pass for a second
and then we actually go ahead
and fill it up with accept.
I will go ahead and accept,
just like this and we'll say pass.
So this is a basic syntax.
As of now we'll study more about
this, although we don't need to.
This is it all about the syntax.
If there is an error
in the try block, you try
to execute some piece of code.
If there is a problem,
it is handled in the accept pass
or the exception stage.
But anyways I'll go ahead and say
while true, so we are generating
a constant one, we'll keep
an order and this order is actually
coming up from the yield.
And we will also pass on a message
which says waiting for chai order.
Another interesting syntax.
Yes, I know.
And then once we are done here,
we are getting the order,
we will just go ahead and print
this, a simple message which says
stall closed, no more chai.
So in case something goes
wrong, we go like that.
Now where is the closing
syntax in all of this?
Don't worry, have
patience, I'll show you.
First of all, let's just say we bring
up a stall and that stall comes
from the chai stall, just like that.
In order to just go ahead
and start this, we are going
to go ahead and print this.
I'll say it like this.
I will use the next syntax and in
the next syntax I'll just go
ahead and pass on this stall.
All right.
Pretty easy.
Pretty.
Okay, now let's see what
happens if I go ahead and run
this much of the code.
This is fun.
Actually if I run this notice here,
it says waiting for chai order.
There is no more order.
We simply say stall
close, no more chai.
Okay, but that's okay, that's
exactly what we wanted to go with
that because we didn't pass on
any value, we didn't send anything,
remember the send syntax.
But interestingly you can actually
go ahead and gracefully close it
just by using a close Run this.
That is it.
Now what happens when I run this one?
That's interesting.
Notice here.
Exactly Same.
And this is probably the reason
why a lot of people
don't actually close it.
They just wait that hey, it
will probably automatic close,
which is not a good idea.
You should always be responsible
for closing your generators.
And this is how it goes.
This is known as it triggers
a generator exit method which
actually is responsible for this.
So this not only just close this,
this is actually a cleanup.
You're cleaning up your memory
and this should be done.
This is important.
So.
All right.
Hope you got this thing.
Let me just give you a quick summary
because hey, we have studied a lot.
So the first thing that we
have studied is yield syntax.
This is a very, very
interesting syntax.
What it does it pause and resume
an execution of a function.
This is the main guy who
is responsible for
converting into generators.
We then studied about the next syntax
which is manually getting the next
value, whichever the generator
is going to yield at me.
Then we also went up and studied
the send syntax which actually
sends data, into the generator.
We also went up and studied
the syntax of yield from.
And that's simply just getting
from another generator
or delegate the sub generator
or iteratable any task.
It's not just always
getting the value.
Sometimes you want to delegate some
tasks that hey, you'll do that task.
So we can actually go
ahead and do that.
And last but not the least
one that is close.
This is usually the cleanup.
This gracefully stops
the generator again, it stops
automatically as well.
But we really want
to gracefully stop the generator so
there are no memory leaks.
Your program performs well.
No memory crashes, tons of advantage.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.